---
title: "V-Coder: Adaptive AutoEncoder for Semantic Disclosure in Knowledge Graphs"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2022-01
venue: 'Preprint: ArXiv'
excerpt: 'In this work, we are interested in the problem of Relational Resolution 
within the scope of KGs, i.e, we are investigating the inherent semantic of relationships between entities within a network. 
We propose a new adaptive AutoEncoder, called V-Coder, to identify relations inherently connecting entities from different 
domains. Those relations can be considered as being ambiguous and are candidates for disentanglement. Likewise to the Adaptive 
Learning Theory (ART), our model learns new patterns from the KG by increasing units in a competitive layer without discarding 
the previous observed patterns whilst learning the quality of each relation separately.'
date: 2018-04-16
paperurl: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2208.01735
citation: 'Frey CMM, Schubert M., V-Coder: Adaptive AutoEncoder for Semantic Disclosure in Knowledge Graphs. Published online 2022. doi:10.48550/ARXIV.2208.01735<br/>'
---

## Abstract
Semantic Web or Knowledge Graphs (KG) emerged to one of the most important information source for intelligent systems 
requiring access to structured knowledge. One of the major challenges is the extraction and processing of unambiguous 
information from textual data. Following the human perception, overlapping semantic linkages between two named entities 
become clear due to our common-sense about the context a relationship lives in which is not the case when we look at it 
from an automatically driven process of a machine. In this work, we are interested in the problem of Relational Resolution 
within the scope of KGs, i.e, we are investigating the inherent semantic of relationships between entities within a network. 
We propose a new adaptive AutoEncoder, called V-Coder, to identify relations inherently connecting entities from different 
domains. Those relations can be considered as being ambiguous and are candidates for disentanglement. Likewise to the Adaptive 
Learning Theory (ART), our model learns new patterns from the KG by increasing units in a competitive layer without discarding 
the previous observed patterns whilst learning the quality of each relation separately. The evaluation on real-world datasets 
of Freebase, Yago and NELL shows that the V-Coder is not only able to recover links from corrupted input data, but also shows 
that the semantic disclosure of relations in a KG show the tendency to improve link prediction. A semantic evaluation wraps 
the evaluation up.
