---
title: "Process-Aware Bayesian Networks for Sequential Event Log Queries"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2024-03
venue: '6th International Conference on Process Mining, 2024'
excerpt: "We propose a novel way of handling the uncertainty by leveraging the probabilistic mechanisms of Bayesian Networks to model processes from the structural information given in event log data."
date: 2024-11-01
paperurl: https://christianmaxmike.github.io/publications/2024-03
citation: "Process-Aware Bayesian Networks for Sequential Event Log Queries
S Rauch, CMM Frey, L Zellner, T Seidl - 6th International Conference on Process Mining, 2024<br/>"
---

## Abstract
Business processes from many domains like manufacturing, healthcare, or business administration suffer from
different amounts of uncertainty concerning the execution of individual activities and their order of occurrence. As long as a
process is not entirely serial, i.e., there are no forks or decisions to be made along the process execution, we are - in the absence of
exhaustive domain knowledge - confronted with the question of whether and in which order activities should be executed or left
out for a given case and a desired outcome. As the occurrence or non-occurrence of events has substantial implications regarding
process KPIs like throughput times or scrap rate there is an ample need for assessing and modeling that process-inherent
uncertainty. We propose a novel way of handling the uncertainty by leveraging the probabilistic mechanisms of Bayesian Networks
to model processes from the structural information given in event log data. Thus, we offer a holistic view of the uncertainty
over whole cases. In a thorough analysis of well-established benchmark datasets, we show that our Process-aware Bayesian
Network is capable of answering process queries beyond activity predictions. We provide a Process Query System yielding new
insights that enhance processes explainability. Our method can infer execution probabilities of activities at different stages and
can query probabilities of certain process outcomes. The key benefit of the Process-aware Query System over existing approaches
is the ability to deliver probabilistic, case-diagnostic information about the execution of activities via Bayesian inference.
